# Networking - IP Addresses

## What is an IP Address?
+ Internet Protocol Address - unique numerical value assigned to each network device that uses the IP protocol for communication.
+ An IP adddress functions at the Internet layer 2 of the TCP/IP model (Network layer 3 of the OSI Model).
+ Serves 2 mains purposes:
	- Uniquely identify a device on the network.
	- Locate devices and allow communication between them over the network.

## Components of an IP Address
1. Network Portion: Identifies the network to which the device belongs.
2. Host Portion: Identifies the individual device within a specific network.
3. Subnet Mask: Defines which portion of the IP address is the 'Network' and the other the 'Host'.


## IP Address Types
+ IPs can be classified based on their structure, purpose, and network type they are used id.

### 1. Based on Scope (Private vs Public)
+ **Public IP Addresses**:
	- Assigned to every device that directly accesses the internet.
	- Further categorised based on class.

| **Class**    | **First Address** | **Last Address** | **Networks**             |
| ------------ | ----------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------ |
| **A**/8      | 1.0.0.0           | 126.255.255.255  | Large number of hosts    |
| **B**/16     | 128.0.0.0         | 191.255.255.255  | Moderate number of hosts |
| **C**/24     | 192.0.0.0         | 223.255.255.255  | Smaller Networks         |
| **D**        | 224.0.0.0         | 239.255.255.255  | Used for Multicasting    |
| **E**        | 240.0.0.0         | 254.255.255.255  | Research/Experimental IP |

+ **Private IP Addresses**:
	- Used within private networks (within organisations/institutions/homes).
	- Require Network Address Translation(NAT) to access the internet.
	- Further categorised based on class.

| **Class** | **First Address** | **Last Address** | **Networks**             |
| --------- | ----------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------ |
| **A**     | 10.0.0.0          | 10.255.255.255   | Large number of hosts    |
| **B**     | 172.16.0.0        | 172.31.255.255   | Moderate number of hosts |
| **C**     | 192.168.0.0       | 192.168.255.255  | Smaller Networks         |

### 2. Based on Version (IPv4 vs IPv6)
+ **IPv4**:
	- Most common with 4 Billion+ unique addresses.
	- Structure: 4 octets of 8 bits (1 byte) each, total 32 bits (4 bytes), and each with a value between 0 and 255.
	- Example: 192.168.120.130

+ **IPv6**:
	- Supports 128bit (16 bytes) and ~ 340 undecillion unique IPv6 addresses (2^128).
	- Structure: 8 groups of 4 hexadecimals each (16bits).

### 3. Based on Assignment
+ **Static**: IP Addresses are permanently assigned to a device, e.g., servers, CCTV cameras, etc.
+ **Dynamic**: Temporarily assigned via DHCP from a pool of available addresses.

### 3. Based on Function
+ **Unicast Address**: One-to-one communication.
+ **Broadcast Address**: One-to-all communication within a network.
+ **Multicast Address**: One-to-many (selected group) communication.
+ **Anycast Address**: One-to-nearest communication (based on routing distance).
