# Network Topology Architecture and Design

+ **Heirarchical Network Design Model** - design and implement smaller networks (tiers) to build a larger network.
+ Each layer/tier is designed to execute a specific set of roles, enabling a network designer to optimise (efficiency, cost, scalability, resilience, security) and choose the right network hardware for each layer.

## 3 TIER Architecture
+ Suitable for large networks - campuses, hospitals, banks.
+ Scalability, Resilience, and Security are critical design considerations.

### Core Layer
+ Highest tier.
+ Also refered to the Network Backbone.
+ Simplest but most critical tier of the network.
+ Devices: high-speed devices (e.g. Cisco Catalyst 6500).
+ Aggregates all traffic from all distribution layer devices.
+ It is designed to switch packets as fast as possible. interconnect multiple distribution layer components.
+ Plays a critical role in interconnecting distribution layer components/block to the WAN or internet.
+ Provides limited set of services.
+ Designed to be highly available and 'always on' mode.
	- Redundancy is critical in the design.

### Distribution Layer
+ Second/Middle tiers
+ Acts as a services and control boundary between the access and core tiers.
+ It serves multiple purposes:
	- Aggregation point for all access layer switches and acts as an integral member of the access-distribution block providing connectivity and policy services for network traffic within the access-distribution block.
	- Aggregates the data received from the access layer switches before transmission to the core layer for routing to its final destination.
	- Distribution layer switches will provide upstream services for many access layer switches.
	- Segments/groups or isolates the network for routing, management, security, and problem isolation.  
	- Serves as a boundary between the access and core (routed network) layers.
+ Devices: Router and Multi-layer switches.

### Access Layer
+ Lowest tiers.
+ Provides network access to endpoint devices (wired/wireless).
+ Devices: Layer 2 (access) switches and Access Points
+ Provide intelligent demarcation between network infrastructure and endpoint computing devices.
+ First layer of defence in the network security architecture and first point of negotiation between endpoints and the network infrastructure.

## 2 TIER Architecture
+ Suitable for small to medium sized networks - schools, offices.
+ Security and resilience are more important design factors than scalability.

### Collapsed Core Layer/Collapsed Core-Distribution Architecture
+ Combines the core and distribution tiers.
+ Usually the core and distribution layer functions are implemented by a single device.
+ This implementation helps to reduce network cost while maintain most of the benefits of the 3 Tier architecture.
