# Routing - Standard ACL Configuration

+ **Access Control Lists (ACL)** are a list of _permit_ or _deny_ rules detailing what traffic can or cannot enter or leave an interface (port, VTY, etc).
+ Every packet is verified against each rule in the ACL until a match is found; if no match is found, it will be denied.
+ AIM: Limit administrative access to switches and routers.
+ ACL rules:
	+ _permit_: allows traffic that matches the criteria.
	+ _deny_: block traffic that matches the criteria and discard the packet.
+ Cisco ACLs primarily come in 2 types - Standard ACLs and Extended ACLs.
	+ _Standard ACL_:
		* Focuses on filtering traffic based solely on the source IP address.
		* Use case: used for simple, broad rules, e.g., allowing or denying access from a particular IP address.
		* Range: 1 - 100
+ Both the Standard and Extended ACLs can be configured as either:
	+ _Numbered_: uses a predefined range of numbers to identify the ACL.
	+ _Named_: uses descriptive names, making them easier to manage, understand, and remember, especially in large networks.

## Scenario
+ 2 Subnets: Data Centre - 10.10.10.0/24 & User PCs - 192.168.1.0/24
+ DHCP Server assigns IPs
+ Standard ACL configured on the router
+ Only IT PCs can access the servers. 

## Tasks
1. Create VLAN topology in Packet Tracer & Router/Switch/PCs Configuration.
2. Config IP Addresses on the router, Servers, and PCs
3. Try ping servers from IT and HR dept (working)
4. Config Standard ACL to only permit the 2 IT PCs while denying the HR PCs.
5. Bind the ACL to both router interfaces.
6. Try ping servers from IT and HR dept (only IT PCs can access servers)



### Task 1 + 2 - Router, Switch, Server, and PC Basic Config

**Switch 0**
! Basic Config
conf t
hostname SW0
ban motd ^Unauthorised Access is Prohibited. All Activity is Logged.^
enable password cisco123
service password-encryption
no ip domain-lookup
ip domain-name cybersec.com

do wr

**Switch 1**
! Basic Config
conf t
hostname SW0
ban motd ^Unauthorised Access is Prohibited. All Activity is Logged.^
enable password cisco123
service password-encryption
no ip domain-lookup
ip domain-name cybersec.com

do wr

**Router 0**
! Basic Config
conf t
hostname R0
ban motd ^Unauthorised Access is Prohibited. All Activity is Logged.^
enable password cisco123
service password-encryption
no ip domain-lookup
ip domain-name cybersec.com

!Interface Config
int g0/2
description Link to Data Centre
ip add 10.10.10.1 255.255.255.0
no sh
exit
int g0/1
description Link to Dept Network
ip add 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0
no sh
exit

do wr

## Task 4 + 5 - Router Config ACL

**Router 0**
! Create ACL for the IT PCs
access-list 10 permit host 192.168.1.10
access-list 10 permit host 192.168.1.11
! Deny any other PCs
access-list 10 deny any
! Bind ACL 10 to Source Interface
int g0/1
ip access-group 10 in
exit

do wr


! View ACL 
do sh access-list

## Task 6 - Ping Test After Applying ACL
+ Because the ACL is applied to the source interface (gig0/1) any traffic from non-IT PCs will be dropped at that interface.
+ The HR PCs will be able to reach the IT PCs, but will not be able to reach even their default gateway IP (192.168.1.1).

+ Data Centre Gateway IP from the HR PCs
```
C:\>ping 10.10.10.1

Pinging 10.10.10.1 with 32 bytes of data:

Reply from 192.168.1.1: Destination host unreachable.
Reply from 192.168.1.1: Destination host unreachable.
Reply from 192.168.1.1: Destination host unreachable.
Reply from 192.168.1.1: Destination host unreachable.

Ping statistics for 10.10.10.1:
    Packets: Sent = 4, Received = 0, Lost = 4 (100% loss),
```
+ Department LAN Gateway IP from the HR PCs
```
C:\>ping 192.168.1.1

Pinging 192.168.1.1 with 32 bytes of data:

Reply from 192.168.1.1: Destination host unreachable.
Reply from 192.168.1.1: Destination host unreachable.
Reply from 192.168.1.1: Destination host unreachable.
Reply from 192.168.1.1: Destination host unreachable.

Ping statistics for 192.168.1.1:
    Packets: Sent = 4, Received = 0, Lost = 4 (100% loss),
```
+ ICT PC IP from the HR PCs
```
C:\>ping 192.168.1.10

Pinging 192.168.1.10 with 32 bytes of data:

Reply from 192.168.1.10: bytes=32 time=8ms TTL=128
Reply from 192.168.1.10: bytes=32 time<1ms TTL=128
Reply from 192.168.1.10: bytes=32 time<1ms TTL=128
Reply from 192.168.1.10: bytes=32 time<1ms TTL=128

Ping statistics for 192.168.1.10:
    Packets: Sent = 4, Received = 4, Lost = 0 (0% loss),
Approximate round trip times in milli-seconds:
    Minimum = 0ms, Maximum = 8ms, Average = 2ms
```