# Routing - Router SSH Configuration

+ SSH: encrypted (secure) remote access protocol that can be used to remotely access (and configure/manage/troubleshoot) routers.


## Tasks
1. Create VLAN topology in Packet Tracer & Basic Router/Switch/Endpoint Configuration.
2. Config IP addresses on the router interfaces and PCs (including default gateway - 10.10.1.1).
3. Testing ping from PC to router interface (default gateway).
4. Config router hostname, enable password, domain name, username and password.
5. Config VTY to use local database for authentication and only allow SSH access.
6. Limit access to NW Admin PC and test.



#### Task 1 + 2 + 4 - Basic Switch, Router, & Endpoint Config
**Switch 0**
! Basic Config
conf t
hostname SW0
ban motd ^Unauthorised Access is Prohibited. All Activity is Logged.^
enable password cisco123
service password-encryption
no ip domain-lookup

do wr

**Router 0**
! Router Config
conf t
hostname R0-SSH
enable password cisco123
service password-encryption
ban motd ^Unauthorised Access is Prohibited. All Activity is Logged.^
ip domain-name cisco.com
username admin password password123
int g0/0
description Link to User LAN
ip add 10.10.1.1 255.255.255.0
no sh
exit

do wr

#### Task 3 - PCs Ping Router Test
+ All PCs can ping the router's default gateway interface.



#### Task 5 - Config R0 VTY Line for SSH Access
+ Any PC on the network can ssh into the router.

**Router 0**
! Config SSH Access
! Enable SSH with 1024-bit keys, set domain (for key generation), and force SSHv2
! Timeout authentication process (default 120)
crypto key generate rsa general-keys modulus 1024 
ip ssh version 2 
ip ssh time-out 60

! Config VTY SSH Access
line vty 0 15
! Specify authentication based on local db
login local
! Only permit SSH (no Telnet)
transport input ssh
exit

do wr


#### Task 6 - Limit Access to NW Admin PC
+ Only the NW Admin (IP - 10.10.1.2) can ssh into the router.

**Router 0**
conf t
! Create Standard Numbered ACL list to allow NW Admin PC
access-list 10 permit host 10.10.1.2
access-list 10 deny any
! Bind the ACL to VTY 
line vty 0 15
! Allow incoming traffic on access-list 10
access-class 10 in
exit

do wr