# Network Switching - Trunk - Native VLANs

+ Native VLAN is a special, trunk-port-specific VLAN on an 802.1Q link that carries untagged traffic.
+ By default, VLAN 1 is the native VLAN of most Cisco switches; known to be the default and therefore a security risk.
+ Use the default native VLAN and ensure the native and management VLANs are different.
+ Access ports do not require a VLAN tag since all incoming & outgoing frames belong to a single VLAN.
+ On trunk links, switches add VLAN tags (802.1Q headers) to frames to identify their VLAN.
+ Any untagged traffic (w/o) a VLAN is automatically placed into the native VLAN of that trunk port; this native VLAN frame is forwarded out the trunk port without a VLAN tag.
+ AIM: to enable older devices/protocols that don't support VLAN tagging to communicate on the trunk link.
+ It is critical for both ends of the trunk link to be configure with the same native VLAN for the trunk to function correctly.
+ IEEE 802.1Q - a networking standard that supports VLANs on an IEEE 802.3 Ethernet network.
+ [Cisco Press: Troubleshooting VLANs](https://www.ciscopress.com/articles/article.asp?p=3089357&seqNum=7)

### Tasks
1. Create VLAN topology in Packet Tracer
2. Config switches, trunks, and VLANs
3. View trunk current native VLAN
4. Config native VLANs on the trunk links
5. Confirm new trunk native VLANs


#### Step 2 - Config switches, trunks, and vlans

**Switch 0**
conf t
hostname SW0
ban motd ^Unauthorised Access is Prohibited. All Activity is Logged.^
enable password cisco123
service password-encryption
int range f0/1-2
switchport mode trunk
exit
vlan 10
name IT
exit
vlan 20
name HR
exit
vlan 99
name native
exit
do sh vlan
do wr

**Switch 1**
conf t
hostname SW1
ban motd ^Unauthorised Access is Prohibited. All Activity is Logged.^
enable password cisco123
service password-encryption
int range f0/1-2
switchport mode trunk
exit
vlan 10
name IT
exit
vlan 20
name HR
exit
vlan 99
name native
exit
do sh vlan
do wr

#### Step 3 - View trunk current native VLAN
! Current native VLAN column (privileged exec mode)
sh int trunk

#### Step 4 - Config new native VLAN on each switch
int range f0/1-2
switchport trunk native vlan 99